blog: deploy Coder on fly.io (#4)
coder/blogs: posts/deploy-coder-on-fly-io/index.md

# Deploy Coder on Fly.io

> Fly.io is a platform for deploying applications to the edge. It's a great fit for Coder because it's easy to deploy and scale, and it's easy to manage. In this guide, we'll walk through deploying Coder on Fly.io.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fly.io is a platform for deploying applications to the edge. It's a great fit for Coder because it's easy to deploy and scale, and it's easy to manage. In this guide, we'll walk through deploying Coder on Fly.io and creating workspaces as Fly.io (firecracker) machines.
```

## Prerequisites

- A Fly.io [account](https://fly.io/signup).
- [Fly CLI](https://fly.io/docs/getting-started/installing-flyctl/) installed on your machine.

## Deploy Coder

1. Log in to Fly.io with the CLI:

```bash
flyctl auth login
```

2. Create a new fly postgres database:

```bash
flyctl postgres create DATABASE-NAME
```

3. Create a new fly app:

```bash
flyctl apps create APP-NAME
```

4. Connect to the database with the coder fly app:

```bash
flyctl postgres connect DATABASE-NAME --app APP-NAME
```

This will print out a connection string. Copy the connection string and save it to be used in the next step.

5. Edit the `fly.toml` file and update as per the example below:

```toml
app = "APP-NAME"
kill_signal = "SIGINT"
kill_timeout = 5
primary_region = "ams"  # See a list of regions here: https://fly.io/docs/reference/regions/

[experimental]
  auto_rollback = true

>   private_network = true  # This is needed for Coder to connect to the database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  private_network = true  # Allows Coder to connect to the database
```

[build]
   image = "ghcr.io/coder/coder:latest"

[env]

>   CODER_ACCESS_URL = "https://APP-NAME.fly.dev" # make sure to replace APP-NAME with your app name

Reviewer: Fly will inject `FLY_APP_NAME` here, so that should save a step. https://fly.io/docs/reference/runtime-environment/

I think you can do this, but you might want to confirm:

```suggestion
  CODER_ACCESS_URL = "https://$FLY_APP_NAME.fly.dev" # make sure to replace APP-NAME with your app name
```

Author: I tested and it seems like these are internel varibales and are not passed to Coder. A user has to set it manully.

Author: It seems like we can not use secrets in fly.toml file. Not working for my testing.

  CODER_HTTP_ADDRESS = "0.0.0.0:3000"

>   CODER_PG_CONNECTION_URL = "ADD YOUR POSTGRES CONNECTION STRING HERE"

Reviewer: Similarily, I think Fly adds an environment variable for the DB URL when you "attach" it. Can we reference that?

Author: same for `DATABASE_URL`

Author: For postgress database, `flyctl` adds a secret to the app with name `DATABSE_URL` that we can directly use as an environment variable somehow the assignment `CODER_PG_CONNECTION_URL=$DATABASE_URL` assignment does not work.
> It seems like interpolating environment variables within fly.toml is not supported.

We can either,
1. Copy the connection string to fly.toml
2. Create a new secret `CODER_PG_CONNECTION_URL` with the connection string.

  #CODER_VERBOSE = "true" # Uncomment this if you want to see more logs
  CODER_TELEMETRY_INSTALL_SOURCE = "fly.io"

[[services]]
  protocol = "tcp"
  internal_port = 3000
  processes = ["app"]

  [[services.ports]]
    port = 80
    handlers = ["http"]
    force_https = true

  [[services.ports]]
    port = 443
    handlers = ["tls", "http"]
  [services.concurrency]
    type = "connections"
    hard_limit = 25

```

6. Deploy the app:

Run the following command to deploy the app from the directory where the `fly.toml` file is located:

```bash
flyctl deploy
```

7. Scale the to use more memory:

```bash
flyctl scale memory 1024 --app APP-NAME
```

8. Go to the URL of your app and start using Coder!

> If you want to use a custom domain, you can do so by following the instructions [here](https://fly.io/docs/getting-started/custom-domains/).

## Update Coder

To update the Coder version, run `flyctl deploy --aap APP-NAME` again and it will pull the latest version of Coder.

Congratulations! You've deployed Coder on Fly.io!

## Next Steps

> To write your first coder template, check out the [template docs](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/templates).

> > We have an official [fly.io template](https://github.com/coder/coder/main/examples/templates/fly-docker-image) that you can use as a starting point.

Author: I agree, I will update

## Create your first template

A template is a set of instructions that Coder uses to create a workspace. In this section, we'll create a template that uses a Fly.io machine as the workspace.

1. Install Coder locally by following the instructions [here](https://coder.com/docs/v2/latest/install) or if you are on linux/macOS, you can run the following command:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://coder.com/get-coder.sh | bash
```

2. Login to Coder:

```bash
coder login <coder-url>
```

3. Create a new template by running the following command and following the prompts:

```bash
coder templates init
```

4. Choose the `fly-docker-image` template and cd into the `fly-docker-image` directory.

5. Create the new template by running the following command from the `fly-docker-image` directory:

```bash
coder templates push fly-docker-image --variable fly_api_token=$(flyctl auth token)
```

> instead of setting variable `fly_api_token` you can also set a fly.io secret with the name `FLY_API_TOKEN`
>
> ```bash
> flyctl secrets set FLY_API_TOKEN=$(flyctl auth token)
> ```

6. Go to the Coder UI and create a new workspace using the `fly-docker-image` template.

> 7. This will deploy code-server on a Fly.io machine using the docker image. You can access the code-server instance by clicking on the `Code Server` button.

Reviewer: Could you include one final screenshot here?

Author: Yes.
